English-Fake Content:

1. The video below contains distressing visuals. Viewer discretion is advised

2. Here's a round-up of the news you almost believed this week. Earlier this week, several stories went viral of police in Uttar Pradesh arresting a herd of donkey for eating plants outside prison, went viral. Not just local media but even international publications like the New York Times lapped up the story. However, a factcheck revealed that it was UP Prisons and not UP police who had restrained the donkeys in order to track the owners of the herd. Read BOOM's story here - From Indian Media To NYT: How The ‘Donkeys Jailed In UP’ Story Went Viral Did the Reserve Bank of India issue a notice warning people not to accept 2000-rupee notes of the series 2 AQ and 8 AC? Viral messages on WhatsApp and Facebook would have you believe that the it did. But a little digging helped discover that the message is not only a hoax but a rehash of a 2009 advisory about suspect 1000 rupee notes. Read BOOM's story here - Hoax: No RBI Circular Warning About Fake 2000-Rupee Notes With 2AQ Series 
An old video of a tornado believed to be in Sri Lanka is being shared on social media as footage of cyclone Ockhi. News channel IndiaToday aired the video calling it exclusive footage. But BOOM traced the video back to YouTube where it was uploaded on February 4, 2016. Read our factcheck here - Old Tornado Video From Sri Lanka Shared As Cyclone Ockhi U.S. President Donald Trump's tweets continue to keep journalists and factcheckers busy but this time it was the Netherlands embassy in the US that stepped up to the plate. The Dutch embassy went as far as telling the president that 'facts do matter' after he retweeted an anti Muslim video claiming that a Muslim migrant attacked a Dutch boy on crutches. The embassy said that the attacker was born and raised in the Netherlands and received and completed his sentence under Dutch law. Read BOOM's story here - When The Netherlands Embassy In The U.S. Fact Checked Donald Trump And you can watch BOOM's Jency Jacob and Suyash Barve discuss all these stories and more on our new show Fact vs Fiction. https://youtu.be/3M4Xtob4UHQ

3. A Facebook page named 'Rahul Gandhi for PM' on Wednesday shared a 2013 photo of then Haryana Chief Minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda's rally in Sonepat as Rahul Gandhi's rally in Bikaner, Rajasthan on October 10, 2018. The page, which has over 2,80,000 followers on Facebook, shared a photo claiming the Congress president drew a record crowd of 25 lakh, beating the previously held record by his grandmother and former Prime Minister Indira Gandhi. The post has already received over 13,000 shares on Facebook, at the time of writing this story. BOOM did a Google Reverse Image search and found the original photo on stock images website Getty Images. Click here to view the original image. The image was shot by photographer Gurinder Osan of the Hindustan Times. The ‘Haryana Shakti Rally’ held on November 10, 2013 by then Chief Minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda of the Congress party, was organised to celebrate four years since his government had taken power in the state. A side-by-side comparison shows it is the same photo. Rahul Gandhi addressed the 'Maha Sankalp' rally in Bikaner on Wednesday.

4. "Critics of Arnab Goswami's Republic TV had a field day after the channel made an embarrassing gaffe using a picture of live fire artillery drill by the North Korea army on an opinion piece about the Indian national anthem. The photograph Republic TV used for a piece written by the channel's defence analyst Major Gaurav Arya was actually featured by the international press in April 2017. After much trolling, Republic TV finally changed the image on the article but did so without issuing a correction. Read the full story here. And the FAKE NEWS winners are...https://t.co/59G6x2f7fD — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 18, 2018 U.S. President Donald Trump, the man responsible for making 'fake news' a household term finally carried out his threat of naming and shaming news organisations. Trump tweeted an article from the Republican party's website that listed mainstream media houses in the US and the instances where they had spread either misinformation or disinformation about him. The site crashed within hours of the president's tweet. Donald Trump's tweet has received over 1 lakh Likes and 40,000 retweets and comments each. Trump's usual targets CNN, the Washington Post, ABC and the New York Times all featured on the list. Click here to read the full list. And you can catch BOOM's Jency Jacob and Suyash Barve discuss all these stories and more on our show Fact vs Fiction. https://youtu.be/0qKkiIjMMwE"


5. I feel very good. I did a show called Sasural Simar Ka for 6 years, and for 7 years that was the number one show. Kundali Bhagya, I am doing since past three and a half years, which is again the number one show. That's why I always joke that I am doing the number one show for the past 10 years. I am really happy and feel top of the world that people are loving me. Karan has become so big, the character and everything. I started giving my inputs to the character. I started playing in my way. People loved it. The brief was that he is a cricketer but when you give a personal touch to the character, it adds. Now, I can proudly say that there isn't much difference between Dheeraj and Karan. I was the captain of my school's cricket team. I was famous among girls because I was a good-looking champ. So, there's hardly any difference between Karan and Dheeraj. I don't act when I am playing Karan because it comes very naturally to me. Kundali Bhagya is doing great around the world and we are getting reviews. You speak about the American continent, the Gulf continent, everybody is loving it. We are loved in all the markets. I am fully enjoying the time right now. (Photo: Instagram)





English Real Content:

1. 40 overs of action and we still do not have a winner. The match is heading to the Super Over. Both sides had the game in their hands at one point or the other but none have been able to latch onto it and the game is heading to the Super Over. It was Marcus Stoinis with the bat in the final over and he has managed to do the unthinkable with the ball and has dragged the game into Super Over.

2. SACH is LIFE | ft. Sachin TENDULKAR & Aakash CHOPRA | SPECIAL Interview | Part 1 1 / 10 IPL 2020 Match 1: Mumbai Indians vs Chennai Super Kings Previous Next Show Captions <p>Mumbai Indians and Chennai Super Kings players after the IPL 2020 opening match at the Sheikh Zayed Stadium, Abu Dhabi. (Pic credit: BCCI/IPL)</p> <p>Mumbai Indians and Chennai Super Kings players after the IPL 2020 opening match at the Sheikh Zayed Stadium, Abu Dhabi. (Pic credit: BCCI/IPL)</p> <p>Chennai Super Kings' Faf du Plessis celebrates his fifty against Mumbai Indians at the Sheikh Zayed Stadium, Abu Dhabi. (Pic credit: BCCI/IPL)</p> <p>Chennai Super Kings captain MS Dhoni bats against Mumbai Indians at the Sheikh Zayed Stadium, Abu Dhabi. (Pic credit: BCCI/IPL)</p> <p>Chennai Super Kings' Ambati Rayudu bats against Mumbai Indians at the Sheikh Zayed Stadium, Abu Dhabi. (Pic credit: BCCI/IPL)</p> <p>Mumbai Indians' James Pattinson celebrates the wicket of Chennai Super Kings' Murali Vijay at the Sheikh Zayed Stadium, Abu Dhabi. (Pic credit: BCCI/IPL)</p> <p>Mumbai Indians' Kieron Pollard bats against Chennai Super Kings at the Sheikh Zayed Stadium, Abu Dhabi. (Pic credit: BCCI/IPL)</p> <p>Mumbai Indians' Hardik Pandya bats against Chennai Super Kings at the Sheikh Zayed Stadium, Abu Dhabi. (Pic credit: BCCI/IPL)</p> <p>Chennai Super Kings' Ravindra Jadeja celebrates the wicket of Mumbai Indians' Hardik Pandya at the Sheikh Zayed Stadium, Abu Dhabi. (Pic credit: BCCI/IPL)</p> <p>Chennai Super Kings and Mumbai Indians players stand and clap as they thank the front line heroes before the start of the IPL 2020 opening match at the Sheikh Zayed Stadium, Abu Dhabi. (Pic credit: BCCI/IPL)</p>

Chennai Super Kings beat Mumbai Indians by 5 wickets in IPL opener

NEW DELHI: Batting great Sachin Tendulkar has no doubts as to which team he is supporting this season in the Indian Premier League (IPL).Tendulkar, who captained the Mumbai Indians from the inaugural season in 2008 till 2011, said that he favours the reigning champions to defend the title while adding that all teams in the tournament are on equal footing.""Of course, the Men in Blue, are there any doubts? I've always been in blue everywhere. When Mumbai and Indians come together then it becomes Mumbai Indians,"" Tendulkar told Aakash Chopra on the latter's Youtube channel.""All teams are quite balanced. This format is such that by the time you play, a lot has already transpired on the field. We can look at this in two ways. Batsmen who seem to be in a hurry are cautioned to take it easy, while those who are extremely relaxed at times are required to take swift actions. It is going to be an exciting competition, and matches will be evenly contested. Considering the 53-day duration of the tournament, the team with momentum on its side might prevail.""Tendulkar also spoke about the importance of starting well. However, Mumbai Indians' run of defeats in their opening matches in the IPL continued on Saturday when they were beaten by Chennai Super Kings in Abu Dhabi.""Even while playing a Test series, we stress on performing well in the first game. If we play well in the first game, the series will finish well. Same applies here as well. If the beginning is good, the team meetings are also short, and that holds the team in good stead,"" said the 47-year-old."

3.  SHOPIAN: Hideouts in higher reaches and seeking refuge in local houses are a thing of the past as terrorists in Kashmir valley now dig underground bunkers in dense orchards and even in seasonal streams to escape the dragnet of army and security forces."This trend has been witnessed off late in twin districts of Pulwama and Shopian with the latter having a majority of them in view of dense apple orchards and jungles," says Colonel A K Singh, heading the 44 Rashtriya Rifles , the army's counter-insurgent unit which earned a distinction of having maximum kills of terrorists as well as surrenders or apprehensions.Talking to PTI from the well-fortified 44-RR headquarters, Col Singh and his team is always seen engaging with locals to sort out their problems which may even include career counselling or guidance in education but when it comes to countering terrorists, they are much ahead by neutralising 47 militants and ensuring detentions and surrender of seven of them.For Col Singh and his team, who man two areas of Shopian and three of Pulwama districts, both considered to be hotbeds of militancy, the task has not been easy after recovery of underground bunkers where terrorists could hide for several days without being noticed by the security forces.The shocker was a hideout in the middle of Rambi Ara, known for fluctuating water levels and often affected by flash floods, that led Col Singh and his team members back to the drawing board."The terrorists were hiding inside an iron bunker made in the middle of Rambi Ara. The alert troops saw an opening of an empty oil barrel which was subsequently used by terrorists to enter into the bunker."This was something worth suspicion and discreet surveillance was mounted on the opening. Much to our surprise, we saw terrorists emerging out from underground in the middle of the stream, which generally has water gushing only in the rainy season," he said.Five terrorists belonging to banned Lashkar-e-Taiba and Hizbul Mujahideen were killed after the troops launched an attack earlier this year. However, for the army, it was not the statistics of the number of kills but a worrisome trend indicating that terrorists were now well-entrenched inside the underground bunkers.With the help of technical intelligence coupled with human resources, a survey was ordered of surrounding areas especially in Shopian and the results were encouraging as reports of more cavities in traditional Kashmiri households and underground bunkers started surfacing.Covered by dense apple trees and situated at a height, the army found another underground bunker in Bandpoh in June this year where terrorists had managed to create a 12 feet by 10 feet room. The militants were enjoying their stay while army soldiers were looking for them in other civilian areas.The underground bunker finally lay exposed after troops noticed a polythene sheet covering nothing and the earth nearby was filled recently."The difficult moment for us during this operation was the presence of nearly 50 ladies in the orchards which included one who was pregnant. We initiated an evacuation process and rushed the pregnant lady to a nearby health centre before launching an operation.Five terrorists were gunned down around the underground bunker, says Col Singh, who after taking over the command of 44-Rashtriya Rifles had visited some civilian houses whose kins had joined terror groups. The officer advised the family members to ensure their return and assured them of all possible assistance.Another interesting hide and seek strategy was witnessed in Labipora in Shopian where terrorists had covered an iron box on the banks of a river and kept a small pipe for breathing while hiding underground."This list is long and I am sure we will be able to dig more underground bunkers," Col Singh said.Artificial cavities in normal households were also noticed in these areas and at many places, underground bunkers found their way through the basement of the houses."In Amarbug area of Shopian, we found a small underground room with dimensions of 10 feet in length, 8 feet in height and 6 feet in depth being built adjacent to a boundary wall of a house. The bunker was well equipped where even mobile phones were charged using the inverter batteries," he said.


4. Payal has accused filmmaker Anurag Kashyap of behaving inappropriately with her in a video that went viral. She maintained her stance while speaking to ETimes and said, “I have wanted to speak about this for a long time. But today, finally I thought I must get it off my head. I had tweeted about my incident sometime ago when the #MeToo movement had happened, but many people told me to delete the tweet else I would stop getting work. My manager too advised me to remove the tweet. I complied. Post that, Anurag blocked me on WhatsApp.”

5. A little Rashid magic on @rashidkhan_19's birthday 🎩✨#OrangeArmy #KeepRising #IPL2020 #Dream11IPL https://t.co/TM0P2CAfUQ — SunRisers Hyderabad (@SunRisers) 1600593628000
🚨 ATTENTION #OrangeArmy 🚨Our #IPL2020 fixtures have arrived!#Dream11IPL https://t.co/2glzSwTosn — SunRisers Hyderabad (@SunRisers) 1599391785000 DUBAI: With 55 wickets in three seasons, Rashid Khan is one of the lethal bowlers operating in the IPL but the Afghanistan spinner says his focus is not on taking wickets but bowling economically.The world number one T20 bowler, who plays for Sunrisers Hyderabad , said he ""never thought about taking so many wickets.""He enjoys the best bowling economy of 6.55 at an average of 21.69 in the IPL. The batsmen have now started playing out his overs to avoid the risk of losing their wickets.""My focus is always bowling economically well for the team. When I bowl economically it helps the bowlers on the other end to take wickets,"" Rashid said during a media interaction ahead of their match against RCB.""I concentrate on bowling dot balls and putting pressure on the batsman so he can take risks. My focus is the team's requirement, what helps the team is important to me.""The 22-year-old Afghan said he has about five variations that he uses to bamboozle the batsmen.""I have 4-5 grips. I bowl them according to the wicket based on the reaction of the wicket. Those five grips help me to bowl differently as each one pitches differently.""I keep mixing it up. I have those varieties and I need to use them well. I use my fingers and shoulders a lot to generate the pace.""Rashid said he has been working on a new delivery but won't use it in the IPL as of now.""I'm working hard on my new delivery but unless I play in the longer format, I can't improve that delivery. But I'm trying to perfect it in the nets as it is tough to bowl in shorter format. I just need to be smart and be more consistent. That is something more which will help me to take wickets.""Sunriser will open their campaign against Royal Challengers Bangalore on Monday and Rashid is looking forward to bowling to Virat Kohli ""IPL is a different league (compared to CPL), different pressure. Playing against big names like Kohli and others is a big challenge. No doubt he (Kohli) is one of the best players in the world and you have to have the best ball for him, there is no excuse to be bad.""He'll be back in the field after a long break, let's see what his reaction is, how he performs,"" he said.Familiar with the UAE grounds, Rashid said spinners will play an important role in teams' success.""Spinners will be key in this competition as it goes on, wickets might get better for the spinners as the tournament progresses, the grounds are bigger as well and that helps as a spinner. Sharjah is a small ground but the wicket would be good for the spinners.""The all-rounder also spoke about the challenges of playing the IPL in a biosecure bubble and without crowd.""It's something quite tough but at the same time it's a requirement. Being in the CPL was the toughest time for me, staying in the bubble, not going out.""At the same time you have to be strong mentally the stronger you are the better you will adjust. We need to keep ourselves fresh and fine. Toughest challenge will be how we keep ourselves mentally fit.""Rashid is keen to learn from newly-appointed coach Trevor Bayliss , who comes with an outstanding white-ball record including guiding England to a World Cup victory last year, and play under captain David Warner ""Looking forward to gaining experience from him. A coach who helped England win the World Cup, see his reaction, mindset and hope that helps me.""Warner is an aggressive player and captain. He was the captain in my maiden season, he has always supported me."""
